STRING collects and scores evidence from a number of sources: 
(i) automated text mining of the scientific literature 
(ii) databases of interaction experiments and annotated complexes/pathways 
(iii) computational interaction predictions from co-expression and from conserved genomic context
(iv) systematic transfers of interaction evidence from one organism to another. 

All interaction evidence that contributes to a given network is benchmarked and scored and the scores are integrated into a final ‘combined score’. This score is scaled between zero and one and provides an estimate of STRING’s confidence on whether a proposed association is biologically meaningful given all the contributing evidence

The various evidence types that contribute to STRING associations are first benchmarked and scored separately, in seven distinct evidence channels. 

The first three of the channels (neighborhood, fusion and co-occurrence) rely on computational association predictions based on whole-genome comparisons. These so-called ‘genomic context’ channels can be computed for all organisms for which a completely sequenced genome is available, and do not depend on any further lab assays or measurements.

In the case of the neighborhood channel, two proteins are given an association score based on proximity to each other on the chromosome. This channel is applicable mostly for Bacteria and Archaea; gene pairs achieve a higher score the closer they are on the chromosome (the distance is measured in terms of non-coding nucleotides between the two open reading frames).

For the fusion channel, STRING scans all genomes for open reading frames that appear to be the result of gene-fusion events. For all inferred fusion events, the constituent, non-fused genes in other genomes/organisms are given an association score; the score is higher the better the fusion event can be delineated in terms of the orthology of the participating genes. 

The last of the genome context channels is the co-occurrence channel. Here, STRING searches for pairs of genes whose occurrence patterns throughout evolution show similarities. Such similarities can arise when genes have been transferred, lost, or duplicated together during evolution, which in turn can signify a shared function.

The next two channels reflect functional genomics experiments or direct lab assays. 

For the first (co-expression), STRING collects gene expression evidence from a number of sources; this is then normalized and pruned. Finally, the expression profiles over a large variety of conditions are compared. Pairs of genes which show consistent similarities between their expression profiles are assigned higher association scores; the majority of the expression data is RNA based, but STRING also imports proteome expression data from the ProteomeHD database.

The experiments channel collects protein–protein interaction evidence from experiments and assays in the lab. This includes biochemical, biophysical and genetic experiments; all such interaction evidence is imported from the curated interaction database organized in the iMEX consortium and BioGRID.

The last two evidence channels deal with prior consolidated knowledge on protein–protein associations. First, the knowledge channel parses association evidence from curated pathway databases, where it has been collected and consolidated manually by expert curators. These include pathways annotated in KEGG, Reactome and MetaCyc, as well as protein complexes defined at the EBI Complex Portal or by the Gene Ontology Consortium. 

Finally, statistical co-occurrence analysis across the scientific literature is performed for the text-mining channel. As of version 11.5 of STRING, the text-mining channel is based on PubMed abstracts (last updated on 28 July 2020), articles from the PMC open access subset (last updated on 17 April 2020) and text from OMIM (46) and SGD (47) entry descriptions. Pairs of proteins mentioned together in the same sentence, the same paragraph, or merely the same publication are assigned a benchmarked association score based on the probability that the mutual mention is meaningful, taking into account distance from each other, the frequency of the mutual mention, and the frequency of mention of each protein individually, amongst other factors.
